can coronavirus live in hot temperatures? not at temperatures above 4C
How long does the coronavirus live outside? three days
can animals transfer coronavirus? zoonotic spillover
how long will the quarantine last? three weeks
What can be the risk factors of COVID-19? hypertension
What is the range of incubation periods for COVID-19 in humans? 2-14 days
What percentage of COVID-19 cases in humans had incubation periods of longer than 14 days? 11.6
How does the incubation period for COVID-19 in humans vary by age? age>=40 years
Is there concrete evidence for the presence of asymptomatic transmissions? very lacking
What is the basic reproductive number for the novel coronavirus? 2.56
What is evidence that the novel covonavirus can be transmitted through fecal excretion? stools of infected children
Will the number of COVID-19 cases decline in the summer? not necessarily
What does the literature say about the effect of temperature variation and humidity on the mortality rate of COVID-19 in Wuhan? positive association with COVID-19 mortality was observed for diurnal temperature range
How long can coronavirus persist on different surfaces? persist on inanimate surfaces like metal, glass or plastic for up to 9 days
How long can HCoV-19 survive on aerosols? 3 hours
How long can HCoV-19 persist on plastic and stainless steel? up to 72 hours
What is some evidence that recovered COVID-19 patients can get reinfected? discharged patients in china and elsewhere were testing positive after recovering
For how many hours can HCoV-19 survive on cardboard? 24 hours
How long can SARS-CoV-2 stay on copper? 4 hours
What is the reproduction number of COVID-19? 2.56
How do we know that hypertension is a risk factor of COVID-19? hypertension (56.1%)
What is some evidence that diabetes poses a potential risk factor to COVID-19? associated with mortality
Is heart disease a potential risk factor for COVID-19? severity was higher in the AMI patients
Are obese people more at risk to COVID-19? BMI of the critical group was significantly higher
What is the relationship between pregnancy and COVID-19? 6/9 pregnancies showed fetal distress
Do people who smoke have a higher risk from COVID-19? higher proportion of patients
How short is the serial interval for COVID-19? shorter than its median incubation period
When was the first human case of COVID-19 reported? December 2019
What is the recommended length of quarantine? three weeks
What meteorological factors may impact COVID-19 death? temperature
What facility was responsible for significantly decreasing COVID-19 mortality in Wuhan and Hubei? makeshift hospitals
Is being diagnosed with coronavirus the same as being diagnosed as COVID-19? A diagnosis with coronavirus 229E, NL63, OC43, or HKU1 is not the same as a COVID-19 diagnosis
What other coronavirus strands that infect humans originated from animals? Middle East Respiratory Syndrome
How long do COVID-19 patients have to be isolated? three weeks
Is a COVID-19 patient who has recovered considered a risk to others? discharged patients in china and elsewhere were testing positive after recovering
What temperature kills HCoV-19? don't have direct data
What is the most common way that coronavirus spreads? respiratory droplets
Are children at a higher risk of becoming sick with COVID-19 than adults? do not appear
Are the symptoms of COVID-19 different in children than in adults? similar
What are some symptoms of COVID-19 in children? cold-like symptoms
Am I safe if I tested negative for COVID-19? 15% of the RT-PCR negative patients were tested positive
Are people with disabilities at higher risk of COVID-19? not
What diseases are caused by coronavirus? MERS
What are the symptoms of COVID-19? fever
What can I do to protect myself against COVID-19? wash hands
What should someone who has visited areas heavily infected with COVID-19 do? self isolate
Who is the most prone to develop severe COVID-19? older persons
Why are antibiotics not effective against COVID-19? do not work
Are there any medicines or therapies that can prevent or cure COVID-19? no evidence
Is there a vaccine for COVID-19? no vaccine
Is COVID-19 the same as SARS? related to each other genetically
What measures are not effective against COVID-19 and can actually be harmful? smoking
Is COVID-19 airborne? disease transmission via airborne
